---
layout: docs
---


<img src="topbar.jpg" data-border="0" />
# Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual

*Version 1.6.1*

Welcome to the adv3Lite Library Reference!

This manual is a hyperlinked, cross-referenced index of the alternative
TADS 3 Adventure Library, known as adv3Lite. It also covers the core T3
system library as well as the T3 VM's intrinsic functions and classes.

This documentation is derived directly from the library source files, so
it contains the most up-to-date information available. The narrative
descriptions of classes, functions, methods, and so on are simply
transcribed from the comments in the library source code. As such, the
information here is also available by browsing the library source
directly. This manual is designed to be easier to navigate than the
library source code, but in some cases the best way to get the full
details on how something works is to go directly to its implementation.

## Navigation

The layout you see here consists of four "frame" windows.

The **Contents** bar lets you select which list you want to see in the
Index panel. Click a link to bring up a list of that type of item in the
Index panel.

The **File Index** panel, along the left side just below the Contents
bar, shows a list of all of the source and header files in the library.
Click on a filename to go to the page for that file. The *classes* link
next to each file brings up a list of the file's classes in the Index
panel.

The **Index** panel, on the left side below the File Index, shows a list
of classes, actions, grammar rules, objects, functions, macros, enums,
templates, or messages (i.e. messages defined with BMsg() or DMsg(). You
can change the index shown here by clicking on a link in the Contents
bar at the top.

The main panel shows the detailed documentation for the currently
selected item. Clicking on an item in the Index panel shows that item's
detail page here.

## Tips

The *all symbols* link in the Contents bar brings up a truly
comprehensive index (divided alphabetically, to keep the page sizes
manageable) that includes not only all the types of items listed in the
Contents bar, but also all of the properties and methods defined
throughout the library. This is an easy way to find out exactly which
classes define a particular property.

Many of the items described in the documentation pages include two
cross-reference links, of the form "FileName \[line\]". Clicking on the
file name link displays the file documentation. Clicking on the line
number will display a copy of the original source file, at the line
where the item is defined.

This manual is generated mechanically from the library sources, but the
generator program sometimes misses things. If an item says "no
description available", try looking in the source file (click on the
line number link) - there may be documentation there that the
documentation generator didn't pick up.

In addition to the contents of the main adv3Lite library, this manual
also includes information on all the **extensions** included with
adv3Lite, which are only available to game code if the extension(s) in
question are explicitly included in your project. Classes, objects and
functions specific to particular extensions are clearly labelled as such
in the accompanying comments.

## Acknowledgments

Many thanks to Edward L. Stauff, who wrote the program that generates
this manual from the library source files. Ed's system has been a huge
help to everyone using TADS 3, and indispensable in creating the
official doc set.

The generator program is now maintained by Michael Roberts; please
contact Mike with any comments on this manual or the generator program.
If you're interested in customizing the generator program, it's
available for download from the
<a href="http://www.tads.org" target="_top">tads.org</a> site. The
version used to generate this manual for adv3Lite was modified by Eric
Eve.

## Copyright

Copyright ©2000, 2008 by Michael J. Roberts. © 2012-13 Eric Eve. This
documentation may be used and redistributed without charge, subject to
the condition that it not be altered, and that no copyright or
authorship notices be removed or modified.

## Other Adv3Lite Documentation

<a href="..\manual\index.html" target="_top">Library Manual</a>

<a href="..\tutorial\index.html" target="_top">Tutorial</a>
Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1




