---
layout: docs
---
<span class="title">t3.h</span><span class="type">file</span>

[source file](../source/t3.h.html)

**Classes**  
[Summary](#_ClassSummary_)  
 

**Functions**  
[Summary](#_FunctionSummary_)  
[Details](#_Functions_)

**Macros**  
[Summary](#_MacroSummary_)  
[Details](#_Macros_)

**Enums**  
[Summary](#_EnumSummary_)  
[Details](#_Enums_)

**Templates**  
[Summary](#_TemplateSummary_)  
[Details](#_Templates_)

<div class="fdesc">

This header defines the t3vm intrinsic function set. These functions
provide access to basic features of the Virtual Machine.

</div>

<span id="_ClassSummary_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Summary of Classes</span>  

</div>

*(none)* <span id="FunctionSummary_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Summary of Global Functions</span>  

</div>

` `[`t3AllocProp`](#t3AllocProp)`  `[`t3DebugTrace`](#t3DebugTrace)`  `[`t3GetGlobalSymbols`](#t3GetGlobalSymbols)`  `[`t3GetNamedArg`](#t3GetNamedArg)`  `[`t3GetNamedArgList`](#t3GetNamedArgList)`  `[`t3GetStackTrace`](#t3GetStackTrace)`  `[`t3GetVMBanner`](#t3GetVMBanner)`  `[`t3GetVMID`](#t3GetVMID)`  `[`t3GetVMPreinitMode`](#t3GetVMPreinitMode)`  `[`t3GetVMVsn`](#t3GetVMVsn)`  `[`t3RunGC`](#t3RunGC)`  `[`t3SetSay`](#t3SetSay)`  `

<span id="_MacroSummary_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Summary of Macros</span>  

</div>

` `[`T3DebugBreak`](#T3DebugBreak)`  `[`T3DebugCheck`](#T3DebugCheck)`  `[`T3DebugLog`](#T3DebugLog)`  `[`T3GetStackDesc`](#T3GetStackDesc)`  `[`T3GetStackLocals`](#T3GetStackLocals)`  `[`T3GlobalSymbols`](#T3GlobalSymbols)`  `[`T3MacroHasArgs`](#T3MacroHasArgs)`  `[`T3MacroHasVarargs`](#T3MacroHasVarargs)`  `[`T3PreprocMacros`](#T3PreprocMacros)`  `[`T3SetSayNoFunc`](#T3SetSayNoFunc)`  `[`T3SetSayNoMethod`](#T3SetSayNoMethod)`  `

<span id="_EnumSummary_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Summary of Enums</span>  

</div>

*(none)* <span id="_TemplateSummary_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Summary of Templates</span>  

</div>

*(none)* <span id="_Functions_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Global Functions</span>  

</div>

<span id="t3AllocProp"></span>

`t3AllocProp ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[146](../source/t3.h.html#146)\]

<div class="desc">

Allocate a new property. Returns a new property not yet used anywhere in
the program. Note that property ID's are a somewhat limited resource -
only approximately 65,000 total are available, including all of the
properties that the program defines statically.

</div>

<span id="t3DebugTrace"></span>

`t3DebugTrace (mode, ...)`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[99](../source/t3.h.html#99)\]

<div class="desc">

Debugger trace operations. This provides access to the interactive
debugger subsystem, if the VM is running under a debugger. The 'mode'
argument determines what the function does and what the additional
arguments, if any, are for:

T3DebugCheck - checks to see if an interactive debugger is present. No
additional arguments; returns true if a debugger is present, nil if not.

T3DebugBreak - breaks into the interactive debugger, pausing execution
at the current code location so that the user can inspect the current
machine state and determine how to proceed. No additional arguments;
after the user proceeds with execution, the function returns true to
indicate that a debugger is present. If no debugger is present, the
function simply returns nil, and has no other effect.

T3DebugLog - writes a message to the debug log. The second argument is a
string with the text of the message to write. When running under an
interactive debugger, the log is usually displayed as a window in the
UI, or something similar. When running in a regular interpreter, the log
is stored as a text file called tadslog.txt, in a directory location
that varies by system. When a log file is used, the system automatically
adds a timestamp to each message.

</div>

<span id="t3GetGlobalSymbols"></span>

`t3GetGlobalSymbols (which?)`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[137](../source/t3.h.html#137)\]

<div class="desc">

Get the global symbol table or the global macro table.

'which' specifies which table to retrieve:

  
T3GlobalSymbols - return the global symbol table  
T3PreprocMacros - return the preprocessor macro table

If 'which' is omitted, the global symbol table is returned by default.

If the requested symbol table is available, this returns a LookupTable
object; otherwise, it returns nil.

The symbol tables are available under two conditions. First, while
pre-initialization is running during the program build (compiling)
process, regardless of the debug/release mode being used for
compilation. Second, during normal "t3run" execution, but only when the
program has been compiled for debugging. When you compile in release
mode, the compiler omits the debugging symbols from the .t3 image file
to save space, so the symbol tables won't be available when running a
release build under the interpreter.

If you want to access the symbol tables under normal execution (i.e.,
after preinit) in a release build, you can do it, but it requires an
extra manual step. The trick is to call this function during preinit,
when the symbol tables are definitely available regardless of the
debug/release mode, and then save a reference to each desired table in
an object property. This will ensure that the final image file saved
after preinit completes includes the tables, because the object property
reference ensures that the garbage collector won't delete them. Now, you
\*still\* can't access the tables again at run-time by calling
t3GetGlobalSymbols(), but you can instead get the same information from
your saved object property.

</div>

<span id="t3GetNamedArg"></span>

`t3GetNamedArg (name, defval?)`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[181](../source/t3.h.html#181)\]

<div class="desc">

Get a named argument. This searches for the specified named argument,
and returns the value of the argument if it's defined.

'name' is a string giving the name of the argument to search for. This
must exactly match the name of an argument passed by a caller with the
"name: value" syntax. The match is case-sensitive.

'defval' is an optional default value to return if the argument doesn't
exist. If 'deval' is specified, and the argument doesn't exist, the
function returns 'defval'. If 'defval' is omitted, and the argument
doesn't exist, the function throws an error.

</div>

<span id="t3GetNamedArgList"></span>

`t3GetNamedArgList ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[188](../source/t3.h.html#188)\]

<div class="desc">

Get a list of all named arguments currently in effect. This returns a
list of strings, where each string is the name of a named argument
that's currently active.

</div>

<span id="t3GetStackTrace"></span>

`t3GetStackTrace (level?, flags?)`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[166](../source/t3.h.html#166)\]

<div class="desc">

Get a stack trace. This returns a list of T3StackInfo objects. Each
object represents a nesting level in the call stack. The first element
in the list represents the currently active level (i.e., the level that
called this function), the second element represents the caller of the
first element, and so on.

If 'level' is an integer, we'll return a single T3StackInfo object
giving the context at the given stack level - 1 is the active level, 2
is its caller, and so on, so 'level' would simply be the index in the
returned list when this argument is omitted. If 'level' is omitted or
nil, we return a list of T3StackInfo objects giving the entire stack
trace.

If 'flags' is specified, it's a combination of T3GetStackXxx flags
specifying additional options. If this isn't included, the default is 0
(i.e., all flags turned off).

</div>

<span id="t3GetVMBanner"></span>

`t3GetVMBanner ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[64](../source/t3.h.html#64)\]

<div class="desc">

Get the VM banner string. This returns a string with the name of the VM,
the version number, and a copyright string, in a format suitable for
displaying to the user to identify the VM executable.

</div>

<span id="t3GetVMID"></span>

`t3GetVMID ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[57](../source/t3.h.html#57)\]

<div class="desc">

Get the VM identifier string. This returns the version number as a
string, as in '3.0.10'.

</div>

<span id="t3GetVMPreinitMode"></span>

`t3GetVMPreinitMode ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[71](../source/t3.h.html#71)\]

<div class="desc">

Get the preinitialization mode flag. This returns true if the VM is
running as part of the compiler's pre-initialization phase, nil if it's
running as a normal interpreter.

</div>

<span id="t3GetVMVsn"></span>

`t3GetVMVsn ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[51](../source/t3.h.html#51)\]

<div class="desc">

Get the VM version number. Returns the version number as an integer
value, with the major version in the high-order 16 bits, the minor
version number in the next 8 bits, and the patch number ("point release"
number) in the low-order 8 bits. For example, version 3.0.10 is encoded
as 0x0003000A.

</div>

<span id="t3RunGC"></span>

`t3RunGC ( )`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[28](../source/t3.h.html#28)\]

<div class="desc">

Explicitly run garbage collection.

</div>

<span id="t3SetSay"></span>

`t3SetSay (val)`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[42](../source/t3.h.html#42)\]

<div class="desc">

Set the default output function or method. The return value is the old
function pointer or method, depending on which one is being set with
this call. (If 'val' is a function pointer, the return value will be the
old function; if 'val' is a property ID, the return value is the old
method.)

The special values T3SetSayNoFunc and T3SetSayNoMethod can be passed to
the function to remove any existing function or method, respectively,
and are returned when appropriate to indicate that there was no previous
setting.

</div>

<span id="_Macros_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Macros</span>  

</div>

<span id="T3DebugBreak"></span>

`T3DebugBreak`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[200](../source/t3.h.html#200)\]

<div class="desc">

`2`  
break into the debugger

</div>

<span id="T3DebugCheck"></span>

`T3DebugCheck`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[197](../source/t3.h.html#197)\]

<div class="desc">

`1`  
check to see if the debugger is present

</div>

<span id="T3DebugLog"></span>

`T3DebugLog`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[203](../source/t3.h.html#203)\]

<div class="desc">

`3`  
log a message to the system/debug log

</div>

<span id="T3GetStackDesc"></span>

`T3GetStackDesc`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[226](../source/t3.h.html#226)\]

<div class="desc">

`0x0002`  
*no description available*

</div>

<span id="T3GetStackLocals"></span>

`T3GetStackLocals`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[225](../source/t3.h.html#225)\]

<div class="desc">

`0x0001`  
t3GetStackTrace flags. These can be combined with the bitwise '\|'
operator.

</div>

<span id="T3GlobalSymbols"></span>

`T3GlobalSymbols`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[218](../source/t3.h.html#218)\]

<div class="desc">

`1`  
t3GetGlobalSymbols 'which' flag. One of these values can be specified as
the function argument to specify which type of table is to be retrieved.

</div>

<span id="T3MacroHasArgs"></span>

`T3MacroHasArgs`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[231](../source/t3.h.html#231)\]

<div class="desc">

`0x0001`  
Macro information flags.

</div>

<span id="T3MacroHasVarargs"></span>

`T3MacroHasVarargs`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[232](../source/t3.h.html#232)\]

<div class="desc">

`0x0002`  
*no description available*

</div>

<span id="T3PreprocMacros"></span>

`T3PreprocMacros`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[219](../source/t3.h.html#219)\]

<div class="desc">

`2`  
*no description available*

</div>

<span id="T3SetSayNoFunc"></span>

`T3SetSayNoFunc`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[210](../source/t3.h.html#210)\]

<div class="desc">

`1`  
t3SetSay() special values. These can be passed in lieu of a function
pointer or property ID when the caller wants to remove any existing
function or method rather than install a new one.

</div>

<span id="T3SetSayNoMethod"></span>

`T3SetSayNoMethod`

[t3.h](../file/t3.h.html)\[[211](../source/t3.h.html#211)\]

<div class="desc">

`2`  
*no description available*

</div>

<span id="_Enums_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Enums</span>  

</div>

*(none)* <span id="_Templates_"></span>

<div class="mjhd">

<span class="hdln">Templates</span>  

</div>

*(none)*

<div class="ftr">

Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1

</div>
