---
layout: docs
---
<span class="title">Distinguisher</span><span class="type">class</span>

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1242](../source/parser.t.html#1242)\]

[Superclass  
Tree](#_SuperClassTree_)

[Subclass  
Tree](#_SubClassTree_)

[Global  
Objects](#_ObjectSummary_)

[Property  
Summary](#_PropSummary_)

[Method  
Summary](#_MethodSummary_)

[Property  
Details](#_Properties_)

[Method  
Details](#_Methods_)



A Distinguisher is an abstract parser object that represents one way
that we can tell two objects apart, both in the name we display and in
command input.

Note that this class is designed primarily for the parser's internal
use, to facilitate some bookkeeping that we have to do during
disambiguation. It's not really designed as an extensibility mechanism,
because it's not usually enough to just add a new instance: you usually
also have to add grammar for whatever new phrasing the new distinguisher
represents, plus object resolution code to handle the new form of
qualification.

`class `**`Distinguisher`**` :   object`



<span id="_SuperClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Superclass Tree</span>   (in declaration order)



**`Distinguisher`**  
`         object`  
<span id="_SubClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Subclass Tree</span>  



**`Distinguisher`**  
[`StateDistinguisher`](../object/StateDistinguisher.html)  
<span id="_ObjectSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Global Objects</span>  



[`contentsDistinguisher`](../object/contentsDistinguisher.html) [`disambigNameDistinguisher`](../object/disambigNameDistinguisher.html) [`locationDistinguisher`](../object/locationDistinguisher.html) [`nameDistinguisher`](../object/nameDistinguisher.html) [`ownerDistinguisher`](../object/ownerDistinguisher.html)
<span id="_PropSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Properties</span>  



[`all`](#all) [`classInitFirst`](#classInitFirst) [`sortOrder`](#sortOrder)

<span id="_MethodSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Methods</span>  



[`appliesTo`](#appliesTo) [`apply`](#apply) [`classInit`](#classInit) [`equal`](#equal) [`getNames`](#getNames)

<span id="_Properties_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Properties</span>  



<span id="all"></span>

`all`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1318](../source/parser.t.html#1318)\]



class property: master list of all distinguishers



<span id="classInitFirst"></span>

`classInitFirst`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1331](../source/parser.t.html#1331)\]



make sure the StateDistinguisher instances are constructed first



<span id="sortOrder"></span>

`sortOrder`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1248](../source/parser.t.html#1248)\]



Sorting order. The parser sorts the master list of distinguishers in
ascending order of this value to determine the order of application.



<span id="_Methods_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Methods</span>  



<span id="appliesTo"></span>

`appliesTo (obj)`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1265](../source/parser.t.html#1265)\]



Is this distinguisher applicable to the given object? Some
distinguishers can only apply to certain objects. For example, a
Lit/Unlit distinguisher can only be applied to objects with that state
variable, because there's no vocabulary that we can add to an object
without the variable. (We can talk about "lit" and "unlit" matches, but
we don't have any standard vocabulary to talk about "unlightable"
matches.)



<span id="apply"></span>

`apply (lst)`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1271](../source/parser.t.html#1271)\]



Apply the distinguisher. Returns a DistResult object with the results.



<span id="classInit"></span>

`classInit ( )`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1321](../source/parser.t.html#1321)\]



during initialization, build the master list



<span id="equal"></span>

`equal (a, b)`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1254](../source/parser.t.html#1254)\]



Compare two objects for equivalence under this distinguisher. Returns
true if the objects are equivalent, nil others.



<span id="getNames"></span>

`getNames (objs, article)`

[parser.t](../file/parser.t.html)\[[1348](../source/parser.t.html#1348)\]



Class method: generate distinguishing names for a list of objects. This
generates names that distinguish the objects from one another, by
applying as many Distinguishers as needed to come up with unique names.

If 'article' is true, we'll use a definite or indefinite article, as
appropriate: definite if the name we settle upon uniquely identifies the
object within the list, indefinite if not. If 'article' is nil, the
names don't have articles at all.

Returns a list of \[name, \[objects\]\] sublists. The name is a string
giving the distinguished name; the \[objects\] sub-sublist is a list of
the objects known under that name.
Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1


