---
layout: docs
---
<span class="title">inputManager</span><span class="type">object</span>

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[65](../source/input.t.html#65)\]

[Superclass  
Tree](#_SuperClassTree_)

[Property  
Summary](#_PropSummary_)

[Method  
Summary](#_MethodSummary_)

[Property  
Details](#_Properties_)

[Method  
Details](#_Methods_)



Keyboard input manager.

**`inputManager`**` :   `[`PostRestoreObject`](../object/PostRestoreObject.html)



<span id="_SuperClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Superclass Tree</span>   (in declaration order)



**`inputManager`**  
[`PostRestoreObject`](../object/PostRestoreObject.html)  
[`ModuleExecObject`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html)  
`                         object`  
<span id="_PropSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Properties</span>  



[`inProgressDefObj`](#inProgressDefObj) [`inputEventInProgress`](#inputEventInProgress) [`inputLineInProgress`](#inputLineInProgress) [`noInputTimeout`](#noInputTimeout)

Inherited from `PostRestoreObject` :  
[`restoreCode`](../object/PostRestoreObject.html#restoreCode)

Inherited from `ModuleExecObject` :  
[`execAfterMe`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#execAfterMe) [`execBeforeMe`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#execBeforeMe) [`hasInitialized_`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#hasInitialized_) [`isDoingExec_`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#isDoingExec_) [`isExecuted_`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#isExecuted_)

<span id="_MethodSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Methods</span>  



[`cancelInputInProgress`](#cancelInputInProgress) [`execute`](#execute) [`getEvent`](#getEvent) [`getEventOrKey`](#getEventOrKey) [`getInputDialog`](#getInputDialog) [`getInputFile`](#getInputFile) [`getInputLine`](#getInputLine) [`getInputLineExt`](#getInputLineExt) [`getKey`](#getKey) [`inputBegin`](#inputBegin) [`inputEventBegin`](#inputEventBegin) [`inputEventEnd`](#inputEventEnd) [`inputLineBegin`](#inputLineBegin) [`inputLineEnd`](#inputLineEnd) [`pauseForMore`](#pauseForMore)



Inherited from `ModuleExecObject` :  
[`_execute`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#_execute) [`classExec`](../object/ModuleExecObject.html#classExec)

<span id="_Properties_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Properties</span>  



<span id="inProgressDefObj"></span>

`inProgressDefObj`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[577](../source/input.t.html#577)\]



the InputDef object for the input in progress



<span id="inputEventInProgress"></span>

`inputEventInProgress`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[580](../source/input.t.html#580)\]



flag: keystroke/event input is in progress



<span id="inputLineInProgress"></span>

`inputLineInProgress`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[574](../source/input.t.html#574)\]



Flag: command line input is in progress. If this is set, it means that
we interrupted command-line editing by a timeout, so we should not show
a prompt the next time we go back to the keyboard for input.



<span id="noInputTimeout"></span>

`noInputTimeout`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[599](../source/input.t.html#599)\]



Flag: inputLine does not support timeouts on the current platform. We
set this when we get an InEvtNoTimeout return code from
inputLineTimeout, so that we'll know not to try calling again with a
timeout. This applies to the current interpreter only, so we must ignore
any value restored from a previously saved game, since the game might
have been saved on a different platform.

Note that if this value is nil, it means only that we've never seen an
InEvtNoTimeout return code from inputLineEvent - it does NOT mean that
timeouts are supported locally.

We assume that the input functions are uniform in their treatment of
timeouts; that is, we assume that if inputLineTimeout supports timeout,
then so does inputEvent, and that if one doesn't support timeout, the
other won't either.



<span id="_Methods_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Methods</span>  



<span id="cancelInputInProgress"></span>

`cancelInputInProgress (reset)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[414](../source/input.t.html#414)\]



Cancel input in progress.

If 'reset' is true, we'll clear any input state saved from the
interrupted in-progress editing session; otherwise, we'll retain the
saved editing state for restoration on the next input.

This MUST be called before calling tadsSay(). Games should generally
never call tadsSay() directly (call the library function say() instead),
so in most cases authors will not need to worry about calling this on
output.

This MUST ALSO be called before performing any keyboard input. Callers
using inputManager methods for keyboard operations won't have to worry
about this, because the inputManager methods call this routine when
necessary.



<span id="execute"></span>

`execute ( )`<span class="rem">OVERRIDDEN</span>

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[543](../source/input.t.html#543)\]



receive post-restore notification



<span id="getEvent"></span>

`getEvent (promptFunc?)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[291](../source/input.t.html#291)\]



Read an event, processing real-time events while waiting, if desired.
'allowRealTime' and 'promptFunc' work the same way they do with
getInputLine().



<span id="getEventOrKey"></span>

`getEventOrKey (promptFunc, keyOnly)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[306](../source/input.t.html#306)\]



Read an event or keystroke. 'promptFunc' works the same way it does in
getInputLine(). If 'keyOnly' is true, then we're only interested in
keystroke events, and we'll ignore any other events entered.

Note that this routine is not generally called directly; callers should
usually call the convenience routines getKey() or getEvent(), as needed.



<span id="getInputDialog"></span>

`getInputDialog (icon, prompt, buttons, defaultButton, cancelButton)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[257](../source/input.t.html#257)\]



Ask for input through a dialog. The arguments are the same as for the
built-in inputDialog() function.



<span id="getInputFile"></span>

`getInputFile (prompt, dialogType, fileType, flags)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[243](../source/input.t.html#243)\]



Ask for an input file.



<span id="getInputLine"></span>

`getInputLine (promptFunc?)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[79](../source/input.t.html#79)\]



Read a line of input from the keyboard.

promptFunc can either be a callback function to invoke to display the
prompt, or a single-quoted string containing the prompt. Of course, the
caller can simply display the prompt before calling this routine rather
than passing in a prompt callback, if desired.

If we're in HTML mode, this will switch into the 'tads-input' font while
reading the line, so this routine should be used wherever possible
rather than calling inputLine() or inputLineTimeout() directly.



<span id="getInputLineExt"></span>

`getInputLineExt (defObj)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[91](../source/input.t.html#91)\]



Read a line of input from the keyboard - extended interface, using the
InputDef object to define the input parameters. 'defObj' is an instance
of class InputDef, defining how we're to handle the input.



<span id="getKey"></span>

`getKey (promptFunc?)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[272](../source/input.t.html#272)\]



Read a keystroke, processing real-time events while waiting.
'promptFunc' works the same way it does with getInputLine().



<span id="inputBegin"></span>

`inputBegin (promptFunc)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[525](../source/input.t.html#525)\]



Begin generic input. Cancels command report list capture, and shows the
prompt if given.



<span id="inputEventBegin"></span>

`inputEventBegin (promptFunc)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[441](../source/input.t.html#441)\]



Begin reading key/event input. We'll cancel any report gatherer so that
prompt text shows immediately, and show the prompt if desired.



<span id="inputEventEnd"></span>

`inputEventEnd ( )`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[456](../source/input.t.html#456)\]



End keystroke/event input.



<span id="inputLineBegin"></span>

`inputLineBegin (defObj)`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[470](../source/input.t.html#470)\]



Begin command line editing. If we're in HTML mode, we'll show the
appropriate codes to establish the input font.



<span id="inputLineEnd"></span>

`inputLineEnd ( )`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[496](../source/input.t.html#496)\]



End command line editing. If we're in HTML mode, we'll show the
appropriate codes to close the input font.



<span id="pauseForMore"></span>

`pauseForMore ( )`

[input.t](../file/input.t.html)\[[234](../source/input.t.html#234)\]



Pause for a MORE prompt.
Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1


