---
layout: docs
---
<span class="title">NodeEndCheck</span><span class="type">class</span>

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4827](../source/actor.t.html#4827)\]

[Superclass  
Tree](#_SuperClassTree_)

[Subclass  
Tree](#_SubClassTree_)

[Global  
Objects](#_ObjectSummary_)

[Property  
Summary](#_PropSummary_)

[Method  
Summary](#_MethodSummary_)

[Property  
Details](#_Properties_)

[Method  
Details](#_Methods_)



A NodeEndCheck may optionally be assigned to a Conversation Node (as
defined on the convKeys property, or through being located in a ConvNode
object) to decide whether a conversation is allowed to end while it's at
this node. There's no need to define one of these objects for a
conversation node if you're happy for the conversation to be ended
during it under all circumstances.

`class `**`NodeEndCheck`**` :   `[`EndConvBlocker`](../object/EndConvBlocker.html) [`InitiateTopic`](../object/InitiateTopic.html)



<span id="_SuperClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Superclass Tree</span>   (in declaration order)



**`NodeEndCheck`**  
[`EndConvBlocker`](../object/EndConvBlocker.html)  
`                 object`  
[`InitiateTopic`](../object/InitiateTopic.html)  
[`ActorTopicEntry`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html)  
[`ReplaceRedirector`](../object/ReplaceRedirector.html)  
[`Redirector`](../object/Redirector.html)  
`                                         object`  
[`TopicEntry`](../object/TopicEntry.html)  
`                                 object`  
<span id="_SubClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Subclass Tree</span>  



*(none)* <span id="_ObjectSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Global Objects</span>  



*(none)* <span id="_PropSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Properties</span>  



[`active`](#active) [`convKeys`](#convKeys) [`matchObj`](#matchObj)



Inherited from `InitiateTopic` :  
[`includeInList`](../object/InitiateTopic.html#includeInList)

Inherited from `ActorTopicEntry` :  
[`activated`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#activated) [`autoName`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#autoName) [`curiosityAroused`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#curiosityAroused) [`getActor`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#getActor) [`impliesGreeting`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#impliesGreeting) [`isConversational`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#isConversational) [`keyTopics`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#keyTopics) [`listOrder`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#listOrder) [`name`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#name) [`suggestAs`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#suggestAs) [`timesInvoked`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#timesInvoked)
Inherited from `TopicEntry` :  
[`isActive`](../object/TopicEntry.html#isActive) [`matchExactCase`](../object/TopicEntry.html#matchExactCase) [`matchPattern`](../object/TopicEntry.html#matchPattern) [`matchScore`](../object/TopicEntry.html#matchScore) [`scoreBoost`](../object/TopicEntry.html#scoreBoost) [`topicMatched`](../object/TopicEntry.html#topicMatched)

<span id="_MethodSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Methods</span>  



[`canEndConversation`](#canEndConversation) [`handleTopic`](#handleTopic)

Inherited from `EndConvBlocker` :  
[`blockEndConv`](../object/EndConvBlocker.html#blockEndConv)



Inherited from `ActorTopicEntry` :  
[`activate`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#activate) [`addToConvKeyTable`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#addToConvKeyTable) [`buildName`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#buildName) [`curiositySatisfied`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#curiositySatisfied) [`deactivate`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#deactivate) [`getKeyTopics`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#getKeyTopics) [`initializeTopicEntry`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#initializeTopicEntry) [`isReachable`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#isReachable) [`nodeActive`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#nodeActive) [`showKeyTopics`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#showKeyTopics) [`timesToSuggest`](../object/ActorTopicEntry.html#timesToSuggest)

Inherited from `ReplaceRedirector` :  
[`redirect`](../object/ReplaceRedirector.html#redirect)

Inherited from `Redirector` :  
[`doInstead`](../object/Redirector.html#doInstead) [`doNested`](../object/Redirector.html#doNested) [`doOtherAction`](../object/Redirector.html#doOtherAction)

Inherited from `TopicEntry` :  
[`addTopic`](../object/TopicEntry.html#addTopic) [`matchTopic`](../object/TopicEntry.html#matchTopic) [`scoreBooster`](../object/TopicEntry.html#scoreBooster) [`topicResponse`](../object/TopicEntry.html#topicResponse)

<span id="_Properties_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Properties</span>  



<span id="active"></span>

`active`<span class="rem">OVERRIDDEN</span>

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4834](../source/actor.t.html#4834)\]



We're only active when one or more of our keys is active (having been
activated through an \<.convnode\> tag).



<span id="convKeys"></span>

`convKeys`<span class="rem">OVERRIDDEN</span>

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4845](../source/actor.t.html#4845)\]



Particular instances must override this property to stipulate which keys
we're active for, unless this NodeEndCheck is located within a ConvNode
object which will take care of this for us. Note that instead of
locating a NodeEndCheck in a particular ConvNode, you can specify the
convKeys for a number of ConvNodes here, and this NodeEndCheck will then
apply to them all.



<span id="matchObj"></span>

`matchObj`<span class="rem">OVERRIDDEN</span>

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4828](../source/actor.t.html#4828)\]



*no description available*



<span id="_Methods_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Methods</span>  



<span id="canEndConversation"></span>

`canEndConversation (reason)`

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4854](../source/actor.t.html#4854)\]



Decide whether the conversation can be ended for reason while the
conversation is at this node. By default we simply return true but
instances should override to return nil when the conversation should not
be permitted to end. When the method returns nil it should also display
a message saying why the conversation may not be ended.



<span id="handleTopic"></span>

`handleTopic ( )`<span class="rem">OVERRIDDEN</span>

[actor.t](../file/actor.t.html)\[[4863](../source/actor.t.html#4863)\]



Do nothing here; this class only exists for the sake of its
canEndConversation() method.
Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual  
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1


