[WebUIProfile]{.title}[class]{.type}

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2333](../source/webui.t.html#2333)\]

[Superclass\
Tree](#_SuperClassTree_)

[Subclass\
Tree](#_SubClassTree_)

[Global\
Objects](#_ObjectSummary_)

[Property\
Summary](#_PropSummary_)

[Method\
Summary](#_MethodSummary_)

[Property\
Details](#_Properties_)

[Method\
Details](#_Methods_)

::: fdesc
UI Settings list. This represents a named UI settings profile in the Web
UI. A profile is a list of name/value pairs.

Most of the name keys are style IDs defined in the javascript for on the
UI side - see main.js. These style IDs are arbitrary keys we define to
identify UI elements - \"mainFont\" for the main font name,
\"statusBkg\" for the status-line window\'s background color, etc. Each
style ID generally corresponds to a dialog control widget in the
preferences dialog in the javascript UI, and also corresponds to one or
more CSS style selectors. The mapping from style ID to CSS is defined in
the UI javascript (see prefsMapper in main.js).

The non-style key \"profileName\" is the user-visible name of this
profile. Internally, we refer to profiles using ID values, which are
arbitrary identifiers generated by the UI when it creates a new profile
(it currently uses integer keys).

`class `**`WebUIProfile`**` :   object`
:::

[]{#_SuperClassTree_}

::: mjhd
[Superclass Tree]{.hdln}   (in declaration order)
:::

**`WebUIProfile`**\
`         object`\
[]{#_SubClassTree_}

::: mjhd
[Subclass Tree]{.hdln}  
:::

*(none)* []{#_ObjectSummary_}

::: mjhd
[Global Objects]{.hdln}  
:::

*(none)* []{#_PropSummary_}

::: mjhd
[Summary of Properties]{.hdln}  
:::

` `[`profileID`](#profileID)`  `[`settings`](#settings)`  `

[]{#_MethodSummary_}

::: mjhd
[Summary of Methods]{.hdln}  
:::

` `[`construct`](#construct)`  `[`forEach`](#forEach)`  `[`setItem`](#setItem)`  `

[]{#_Properties_}

::: mjhd
[Properties]{.hdln}  
:::

[]{#profileID}

`profileID`

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2353](../source/webui.t.html#2353)\]

::: desc
internal ID of the profile
:::

[]{#settings}

`settings`

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2356](../source/webui.t.html#2356)\]

::: desc
table of style value strings, keyed by style ID
:::

[]{#_Methods_}

::: mjhd
[Methods]{.hdln}  
:::

[]{#construct}

`construct (id)`

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2334](../source/webui.t.html#2334)\]

::: desc
*no description available*
:::

[]{#forEach}

`forEach (func)`

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2347](../source/webui.t.html#2347)\]

::: desc
call a callback for each style: func(id, val)
:::

[]{#setItem}

`setItem (id, val)`

[webui.t](../file/webui.t.html)\[[2341](../source/webui.t.html#2341)\]

::: desc
set a preference item in the profile
:::

::: ftr
Adv3Lite Library Reference Manual\
Generated on 15/03/2023 from adv3Lite version 1.6.1
:::
