---
layout: docs
---
<span class="title">Dictionary</span><span class="type">class</span>

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[27](../source/dict.h.html#27)\]

[Superclass  
Tree](#_SuperClassTree_)

[Subclass  
Tree](#_SubClassTree_)

[Global  
Objects](#_ObjectSummary_)

[Property  
Summary](#_PropSummary_)

[Method  
Summary](#_MethodSummary_)

[Property  
Details](#_Properties_)

[Method  
Details](#_Methods_)



The Dictionary intrinsic class is a specialized lookup table class
designed for storing the vocabulary table for a parser. Dictionary works
closely with GrammarProd to supply the vocabulary tokens for the
productions.

The main difference between Dictionary and a more general hash table is
that Dictionary tags each vocabulary word with a type; for our purposes,
the type is the vocabulary property (&noun, &adjective, etc) that
associates the word with an object.

`intrinsic class `**`Dictionary`**` :   `[`Object`](../object/Object.html)



<span id="_SuperClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Superclass Tree</span>   (in declaration order)



**`Dictionary`**  
[`Object`](../object/Object.html)  
<span id="_SubClassTree_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Subclass Tree</span>  



*(none)* <span id="_ObjectSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Global Objects</span>  



*(none)* <span id="_PropSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Properties</span>  
*(none)* <span id="_MethodSummary_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Summary of Methods</span>  



[`addWord`](#addWord) [`correctSpelling`](#correctSpelling) [`findWord`](#findWord) [`forEachWord`](#forEachWord) [`isWordDefined`](#isWordDefined) [`removeWord`](#removeWord) [`setComparator`](#setComparator)

Inherited from `Object` :  
[`getPropList`](../object/Object.html#getPropList) [`getPropParams`](../object/Object.html#getPropParams) [`getSuperclassList`](../object/Object.html#getSuperclassList) [`isClass`](../object/Object.html#isClass) [`isTransient`](../object/Object.html#isTransient) [`ofKind`](../object/Object.html#ofKind) [`propDefined`](../object/Object.html#propDefined) [`propInherited`](../object/Object.html#propInherited) [`propType`](../object/Object.html#propType) [`valToSymbol`](../object/Object.html#valToSymbol)

<span id="_Properties_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Properties</span>  



*(none)* <span id="_Methods_"></span>



<span class="hdln">Methods</span>  



<span id="addWord"></span>

`addWord (obj, str, voc_prop)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[137](../source/dict.h.html#137)\]



Add a word to the dictionary, associating the given object with the
given string and property combination.



<span id="correctSpelling"></span>

`correctSpelling (str, maxEditDistance)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[224](../source/dict.h.html#224)\]



Get a list of possible spelling corrections for the given word. This
searches the dictionary for words that match the given word within the
given maximum "edit distance".

The return value is a list giving all of the words in the dictionary
that match the input string within the given maximum edit distance. Any
given dictionary word will appear only once in the returned list. The
list is in arbitrary order. Each entry consists of a sublist, \[word,
dist, repl\], where 'word' is a matching dictionary word, 'dist' is the
edit distance between that dictionary word and the input string, and
'repl' is the number of character replacements performed. (The
replacement count is included in the edit distance, but it's called out
separately because some correctors treat replacements as heavier changes
than other edits. A caller could use this to break ties for corrections
of the same distance. Consider "book" and "box" as corrections for
"bok": both have edit distance 1, but "book" has no replacements, while
"box" has one.)

The edit distance between two words is defined as the number of
single-character insertions, deletions, replacements, and transpositions
necessary to transform one word into another. For example, OPNE can be
transformed into OPEN by transposing the N-E pair, for an edit distance
of 1. XAEMINE can be transformed into EXAMINE by inserting an E at the
beginning, and then deleting the E at the third letter, for an edit
distance of 2.

Choosing the maximum edit distance is essentially heuristic. Higher
values make the search take longer, and yield more matches - which
increases the chances that the right match will be found, but also
increases the number of false matches to sift through. The literature on
spelling correction suggests that 2 is a good value in practice, across
a wide range of applications, based on the most frequent patterns of
human typographical errors. However, you'll probably do better to vary
the distance based on the word length: perhaps 1 for words up to 4
letters, 2 for 5-7 letters, and 3 for words of 8 letters or more.

If the dictionary has a StringComparator object as its current
comparator, the results will take into account its case folding setting,
truncation length, and character mappings. These "approximations" are
NOT considered to be edits, so they don't count against the maximum edit
distance. Custom comparators (not of the StringComparator class) are
ignored: if you use a custom comparator, this method will only find
matches based on the exact text of the dictionary words.



<span id="findWord"></span>

`findWord (str, voc_prop?)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[131](../source/dict.h.html#131)\]



Find a word; returns a list giving the objects associated with the
string in the dictionary. If voc_prop is specified, only objects
associated with the word by the given vocabulary property are returned.
We match the string using the comparator defined for the dictionary.

The return value is a list consisting of pairs of entries. The first
element of each pair is the matching object, and the second is gives the
comparator result for matching the word. If we use a StringComparator,
this will be a non-zero integer value giving information on truncation,
case folding, and any equivalence mappings defined in the comparator. If
the comparator is a custom object, then the second element of the pair
will be whatever the custom comparator's matchValues() method returned
for matching the value for that dictionary entry.

The reason for giving a matchValues() return value for every individual
match is that the same input string 'str' might match multiple entries
in the dictionary. For example, the same string might match one word
exactly and one with truncation. The match result code lets the caller
determine if some matches are "better" than others, based on how the
string matched for each individual object entry.



<span id="forEachWord"></span>

`forEachWord (func)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[175](../source/dict.h.html#175)\]



Invoke the callback func(obj, str, prop) for each word in the
dictionary. Note that the callback can be invoked with a single string
multiple times, since the callback is invoked once per
word/object/property association; in other words, the callback is
invoked once for each association created with addWord() or during
compilation.



<span id="isWordDefined"></span>

`isWordDefined (str, filter?)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[165](../source/dict.h.html#165)\]



Check to see if the given string 'str' is defined in the dictionary.
Returns true if the word is defined, nil if not.

If the 'filter' argument is provided, it gives a callback function that
is invoked to determine whether or not to count a particular word in the
dictionary as a match. The callback is invoked with one argument:
(filter)(match), where 'match' is the result of the comparator's
matchValues(str,dstr) method, where 'dstr' is a dictionary string
matching 'str'. The filter function returns true if the string should be
counted as a match, nil if not. The return value of isWordDefined thus
will be true if the filter function returns true for at least one match,
nil if not. The purpose of the filter function is to allow the caller to
impose a more restrictive condition than the dictionary's current
comparator does; for example, the caller might use the filter to
determine if the dictionary contains any matches for 'str' that match
without any truncation.



<span id="removeWord"></span>

`removeWord (obj, str, voc_prop)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[144](../source/dict.h.html#144)\]



Remove the given word association from the dictionary. This removes only
the association for the given object; other objects associated with the
same word are not affected.



<span id="setComparator"></span>

`setComparator (compObj)`

[dict.h](../file/dict.h.html)\[[104](../source/dict.h.html#104)\]



Set the comparator object. This defines how words are compared. The
object must provide the following methods, which comprise the
"comparator" interface. Note that there's no class that defines this
interface; this is simply a set of methods that we define here, and
which the supplied object must define.

calcHash(str) - returns an integer giving the hash value of the given
string. The purpose of the hash value is to arbitrarily partition the
search space, so that we can search only a small subset of the
dictionary when looking for a particular string. It is desirable for
hash values to distribute uniformly for a given set of strings. It's
also highly desirable for the hash computation to be inexpensive (i.e.,
to run fast), since the whole point of the hash is to reduce the amount
of time it takes to find a string; if it takes longer to compute the
hash value than it would to search every string in the table, then we
don't come out ahead using the hash.

matchValues(inputStr, dictStr) - compare the given input string with the
given dictionary string, and return a result indicating whether or not
they match for the purposes of the comparator. A return value of zero or
nil indicates that the values do not match; any other return value
indicates a match.

Typically, matchValues() will return a non-zero integer to indicate a
match and to encode additional information about the match using a
bitwise-OR'd combination of flag values. For example, a comparator that
allows case folding could use bit flag 0x0001 to indicate any match, and
bit flag 0x0002 to indicate a match where the case of one or more input
letters did not match the case of the corresponding letters in the
dictionary string. So, a return value of 0x0001 would indicate an exact
match, and 0x0003 would indicate a match with case differences.

Note the asymmetry in the matchValues() arguments: we specifically
designate one string as the input string and one as the dictionary
string. This allows for asymmetrical comparisons, which are desirable in
some cases: we sometimes want a given input string to match a given
dictionary string even when the two are not identical
character-by-character. For example, we might want to allow the user to
type only the first six or eight characters of a string in the
dictionary, to save typing; or, we might want to allow a user to enter
unaccented letters and still match dictionary words containing the
corresponding letters with accents. The asymmetry in the arguments is
there because we often only want these "fuzzy" match rules to work in
one direction; for the truncation example, we'd want an input word
that's a truncated version of a dictionary word to match, but not the
other way around.

Important: Note that, although the hash value computation is up to the
implementing object to define, we impose one requirement. It is REQUIRED
that for any two strings s1 and s2, if matchValues(s1, s2) indicates a
match (i.e., returns a value other than 0 or nil), then calcHash(s1)
MUST EQUAL calcHash(s2). (This does NOT mean that two strings with equal
hash values must be equal, or, equivalently, that two unequal strings
must have different hash values. Hash collisions are explicitly allowed,
so two strings that don't match can still have the same hash value.)
TADS 3 Library Manual  
Generated on 5/16/2013 from TADS version 3.1.3


